Hello my friends.
My name is Alan the point of us and it is my great pleasure to welcome you onboard into this course.
I am one of the two instructors here with whom you will be doing all the practical activities inside
which together we will build all the different machinery models of this course.
So congratulations again for taking this course.
And now before we start all the practical activities I just want to make sure that everyone follow these
instructions that were just given to you right before this tutorial so that we can all be ready to code
the machinery models right.
It is important that we do this because I really don't want any of you to have technical issue or to
be blocked on something I want here everyone to learn machine learning smoothly.
So in this tutorial I'm going to make sure that everyone followed the instructions here so that we can
all be ready to start coding.
All right so let's just follow the instructions here.
Step by step.
The first thing I asked you to do was to click the link of the folder containing all the python codes
our code and data sets of this course.
So let's do this first.
Let's click this link.
This link redirects you to indeed the whole machine learning is that folder with all the codes and data
set here.
I made sure to connect from a different Gmail account so that we can have the same page.
So you should get a shared with me folder which is of course this machine learning.
It is that folder.
Now don't worry if you have trouble accessing this folder that probably is because you don't have a
G.M. account so I really encourage you to create and sign into a G.M. account and if you can't do this
don't worry.
I have an alternative solution for you which I'll explain at the end of this story.
All right.
So here we are all on the same page.
Then let's see what I wanted you to do that next thing is an important note.
Number one I asked you to please download this folder on your machine in order to get all the files
especially the datasets which we will have to upload when training the machine learning models.
All right so let's do this.
I'm going to show you how to do it.
In case anyone missed it in order to download this folder it's very simple you just need to click that
little error here and then click download and this will download your folder it is not a big folder
because it only contains codes and data set.
So at first it's going to zip the file and then it's going to download it very quickly.
All right it should just take a few seconds and there we go download ready.
Now it is downloaded and all good.
Perfect.
So I'm going to close this tab and now I'm going to show you what we got.
I'm going to go to my download folder here it is.
This is what was just downloaded this machinery.
It is it folder.
So let's unzip it and just double clicked to unzip it and here it is.
So I always like to put it on my desktop.
So there you go.
Let's go to my desktop.
And here is the whole machinery.
It is that folder containing all the different branches of machine learning you know structure in these
10 parts.
And in each part you will find the different machine learning models of the part because each part actually
corresponds to a specific branch of mission learning each one corresponding to a different type of predictions.
For example in regression we're going to predict a continuous real number in classification we're going
to predict a category in clustering we're going to identify some patterns in the data.
So you see all these are different branches of machine learning.
And so in each of these branches you will find all the major machinery morals and in each machine learning
model folder you will find two folders Python containing the python implementations and are containing
the are implementations and in each of them you will find the same data set with which we will build
and train the machinery model.
All right so it is all structured the same way here.
So you will find everything you will find the data sets the python codes and all codes and so make sure
to have this folder because indeed whenever we build machinery morals we will have to upload the data
set within the implementation.
So we'll get to that later.
I can't wait to start by the way.
I'm really excited to show you how we're going to build all these models.
And now let's follow the rest of the instructions.
I'm going to go back to the link of the Google Drive folder.
There we go.
And now let's go back to this article which you just saw in the previous toil and let's read important
note number two.
So important note number two is only for Python coders because now I'm going to explain how to open
the python files of this folder with Google collaborator and I will give a short introduction to Google
collaborator.
All right so here I specify that indeed you have to sign into your e-mail account otherwise you won't
be able to open directly the Google collaborate re fouls.
So indeed if you're signed into your email account this will automatically open this folder on your
Google Drive which will indeed allow you to open the python files with Google collaboratively.
So I'm going to show you this right away by the way.
Here I am on a separate G.M. account.
So it's exactly as if I was a student with you know a different criminal account than the one from which
I hosted all these folders.
So normally if you're signed into your original account we should all get the same thing.
So for example let's go to part two regression.
Then let's go to simple linear regression that's a very simple machinery model which will actually be
the first machinery model we will build.
Then let's go to python because now indeed I want to introduce you to google collaboratively which is
to me the best platform to start with to code in Python.
And there you go.
So that's the data set and that's the Python implementation.
This Python implementation has as you can see the IP Y and the format which means I Python notebook
and therefore that means that you can only open this file in either Julia notebook which is a very famous
idea to code in Python or Google collaboratively.
And we're going to choose Google collaboratively for the simple reason that we can get a quick and direct
access to our Python implementations.
By that I mean that we don't have to install anything.
You know we don't have to install any software and we don't have to install any package or library inside
because everything is already pre installed.
So that's the beauty of it.
In order to code in Python you don't have to do anything you just need to double click this file and
then as you can see you can just directly open this file with Google collaboratively.
And that's really the beauty of it.
And then you know we won't have to install any package we won't have to install the data science libraries
like tens of so I could learn everything is already reinstalled so that's why I really want you to start
with Google cola because indeed this will be so easy for you to get started with Python.
All right.
So that's the implementation of the simple linear regression model with all the different steps which
of course we're going to re implement from scratch.
Step by step.
But that's for later.
And now I just want to say something important.
This file is in read only mode which means that we can't modify this bout right now but of course don't
worry I'm gonna show you right away how you can create a copy of this file in which you will be able
to indeed modify it and these will be explained again and again each time we build a new machinery model
like this one simple in our regression.
All right.
So as I said this is an read only mode therefore you can't modify it.
Right now you see I am trying to press enter and nothing happens to come modify it.
However in order to modify it you just need to click file here and then save a copy in drive and by
clicking this as you can see this will create a copy of this Google collaboratively file in which you
will be able to modify their code and run it mostly.
All right so now if I click this and I press enter into I can modify this file.
All right.
And you can also run it right.
I'm running the first cell here.
There you go.
So if I click this you see that this cell was run but once again that's all for later we will re implement
everything on Google collab and you will see that this will be super easy and super smooth.
All right.
So now you know everything you are introduced to Google collab.
So once again I recommend to use Google collab for three reasons one because of course it is a free
and open source Jupiter notebook environment.
Second you don't have to install any software you can just click the link from the folder.
And third old data science libraries packages like tens of flows I could learn anything is already pre
installed so you won't have any trouble or any worry installing anything.
And that's really the beauty of it.
All right.
So that was Google collab.
And now final note on the instructions that were given to you just before.
Let's see.
Important note number three still for Python coders.
So I understand that some of you can have a G.M. account because maybe you're working from your company
or you know you just don't like Google so I totally respect that.
And if that's the case.
Well you know if you don't want to code on Google collaboratively and prefer to code on another Python
idea like Djibril notebook or spider in Anaconda that's totally fine.
I'm going to guide you now on how to do this and for all other people if you're happy with Google collaboratively.
Well you can just skip this tutorial and move on to the next one where you will will teach you how to
install ah and if you don't want to work on ah and just on Python while you can directly move on to
the practical activities with part 1 they will be processing.
All right.
And for the rest of you now who wants to work on another idea.
And Google up then please watch the end of this tutorial and let us do this.
So important note number three was that indeed if you don't want to go on Google collaboratively and
prefer a code on another Python idea like Jupiter notebook or spider in Anaconda you can find all the
IPA in the files and the P Y files in the folder attached at the bottom of this oracle.
This one so you just have to scroll down and then click this folder to download it.
As you can see it is downloading it already downloaded.
Perfect And so now I'm going to show you what we just got.
I'm gonna close this gonna go to my download folder so that the old ones I'm going to put that back
in.
This is my down folder.
This is what we just downloaded.
I'm gonna put that in my desktop.
There we go.
I'm going to unzip it do the same.
And now here is a folder that is a whole machinery.
It is a folder with the same codes and data sets.
However this time you will get in each moral and in each Python folder.
Well not only the IP within in the implementation you know for Jupiter and notebook or Google collaboratively
but also the p wide Python implementation in that P Y format with which you can you know code in Python
on Spider or the classic terminal.
And speaking of spider Ojibwe the notebook.
Well that's what I'm gonna show you right away in order to code on these platforms which are different
than Google laboratory.
Well let me show you how to do this.
So we're gonna have to go back to Google.
Then here we're gonna type an R conduct because that's the whole platform that contains Jupiter notebook
and Spider.
We're gonna click the first link then we're gonna click download and then you know make sure to choose
your right system Windows MapQuest or Linux.
I'm on my quest.
I'm gonna go here then you just need to click download here make sure to download Python three point
seven and not Python 2.0 then download.
Here it is now.
Downloading Anaconda I should just take a few seconds 15 seconds.
13 10.
All right so we're gonna get it very soon.
Six seconds left.
Four three two one.
Good.
There we go.
Perfect.
We have it.
So now I'm gonna go back to my download folder.
Here it is.
This is the file so you just double click on it to execute it then continue and then you just click
continue continue continue all the time agree install.
So I'm not going to click install here because Anaconda is already installed on my machine.
But you know you won't have any issue you just need to go up to the end and this will be installed very
quickly.
All right.
So I'm just gonna close this and now once it's installed well you will find it in your programs.
So on Mac you just have to go to your applications and then there you go you double click on the navigator.
This will open Anaconda and inside which you will find as you will see several Python I.D. even are
by the way on which you can run all the python files that are in this folder that we just downloaded
from the bottom of this oracle.
So let's start with Juba notebook.
You just need to click launch here.
This will launch it and here it is.
Here is Juba notebook.
So now you are actually on your mission.
These are the folders of your computer.
So you're just gonna go to the folder where you unzipped this machine learning it is at folder.
So remember I put it on my desktop.
So I click desktop here then ok to let to give access then this is the machinery it is it for the with
all the codes and data sets.
That was just unzipped.
So let's go inside and then let us take for example part two regression in simple in our regression
and of course then python because we are on a python idea and then let's just open simple linear regression
that IP Wendy.
And there you go.
That's the python file which again you can run and get exactly the same results here.
So I'm just going to show you.
We can click this button here to run.
All right.
So this was executed.
Good.
Now we import a dataset.
Now we split the datasets into the training set in the test set.
Now we train the simple in our regression model and the training set then we predict the test results
and then we plot the results.
And there you go.
All right.
So everything is executed.
We plotted the training that results and the test results you see the numbers here mean that the cells
were executed.
All right so that should be the notebook.
And lastly I'm going to show you how to execute the python files if you just prefer them.
So let's do this.
I'm going to go back to here.
I'm going to launch spider now.
This is the recommended idea to run the python files and actually I'm going to code some of the Python
files in this machine running a course on spider.
So let's do this.
Welcome to spider.
That's where you're gonna code your implementations.
That's where you're going to find your files.
Look at the variables you create of your implementation.
Some help window and your plots.
And this is where the code will be executed.
You know the python console.
So very simply in order to execute a Python implementation will we just had to go to file and then open
to open a new file and then well we're gonna go to you know this desktop folder where I put the machinery
into that folder and we're going to go for example to aggression.
Let's take the same examples simple in our regression python.
And there you go.
Simple linear regression open now in files let make sure that we're also in the same folder that contains
the set.
So part of regression simple in our regression python.
And there you go.
And now you can just close this.
Make sure that you took the P Y file right and that this one IP Wendy.
And now there you can just execute everything.
So in order to execute the code well what I like to do is do it code section by code section.
So here I just did the first one I used the shortcut command or control for Windows users plus end to
execute.
Now let's run the second section.
There you go and import the data set because here we are in the right folder.
Now let's execute the third code section by the way of course.
All these will be explained step by step and we will re implement everything.
So executing this.
Now this one to build and train the model.
Now this one to make some predictions.
All right.
Everything goes smoothly and this one where we're going to see something plotted in the console or actually
in a separate window.
And there you go to several windows.
That's the regression line with the predictions compared to the real result.
So all this once again will be explained step by step.
But you see you have many options to run your python files.
I gave you the three Google collaborator re Jupiter notebook or spider and my personal recommendation
is to run them on Google color because you won't have anything to install not any package not in your
library not any dependency.
Everything is ready for you to plug and play with the models.
All right.
So that's it for this material.
I hope you managed to choose your favorite idea and I'm going to start by coding on Google collab.
Then I will go a little bit on Spider.
And then for deep learning of course code back in Google Code AB again because tensor flow is already
installed and all the deep learning libraries already installed.
So there you go.
Now I'm super excited because we're gonna start soon.
The practical activities and we will start with part 1 data processing.
So I can't wait to begin the real journey.
And until then enjoy machine learning.